3/13/2024

train on this data, build model, compare to another area with similar parameters but not as much info
for measurements (train on one state and test model on another state).

For now work with the data we have (NOAA).

It'll be cool to compare fresh vs salt water

Assignment 1
performance indicators: 
	Predicting/Forecasting an algae bloom accurately, 
	model built on the more reliable measurements (maybe add weights to features based on reliability),
	predicting on location as well?,
        severity in bloom (how long) 

stakeholders:
	NOAA
	People that consume from a water source suceptible to algae blooms
	State Tourism Board
	Fish and Wildlife Department
what the problem is: people are getting sick from algae blooms

to do: put the website for the data on the slack channel
	start a github so that everyone can have a fork
	put the meeting notes on the github
	complete assignment 1 (check out the KPI's of past projects, on google doc)



3/21/2024
Directions we want to try to move in:
Taking a closer look at the nans in our data (so far the nan treatment is ok).
-Is there a pattern (seasonality) in the nans?
-Check the other info available that come with the nans

Organize the data by latitute and longtitude instead of by state/regions:
-Looking for blooms along certain latitudes (may imply temp differences)
-Check on ditribution of the type of algae/blooms (state/region/lat-long)


Frequency of the blooms:
-For a baseline we can see if there are seasonal patterns and can just use the average over the years
-Since we're looking at timeseries data can look at seasonality
-Consider the 'time resolution' of the data'
-Look at the duration of the blooms
-Look at frequency of the measurements in the same location



Group Tasks:
We might want to use jupytext if we are going to be doing pull requests.
Jupytext creates py files where it is easy to see diff changes in github.

Looking at spatial concentrations of blooms is easy in tableau. Nathan is going to look into this.

As a group we decided to just work with forks for now and leave branches alone.

Next meeting same time in two weeks with the mentor
Thursday 8:30pm EDT
Not sure if this is set in stone. In the future 9:00pm is probably better for some members,
we'll have to decide.

To Do:
Individually do some EDA and compare notes sometime next week
 

3/28/2024
Deniz made a really good map gif that'd be good for the final slides.
(maybe we want to focus on Venice and Saratosa?)

Deniz scatter matrix and pairplots shows that there isn't a strong linear relationship.

Korean academic paper used linear regression, neural networks, random forest, and sklearn gbm.

The bimodality of the blooms per year suggests we should look closely at temperature

to do:
Need to read the Korean paper

Put link to the Korean paper on the READme

Investigate the nans

Continue working on EDA for the meeting next week with the advisor.

Check out the support documents for the data, might find a explanation for the Mississippi event.

investiage the correlation between cell and sample depth

investigate the correlation between latittude and cell count?

investigate the correlation between temp, salinity and the cellcount

filter out 'not observed' category

4/3/2024
Nathan found that the nan's appear to be a random draw, and have no special correlation with the
other features. Appears to take a random 50% cut of the data. 
Might be a good idea to do the cut manually to see if the plot is the same.

Deniz found that our data doesn't seem to have seasonality between 2010 and 2023 (will look more into it)
and so our data is most likely a trend time series

Seasonality seems to be lacking so we're going to do exponential smoothing around a trending type 
time series.

Arima are also good.

We might only want to tackle neural networks unless we have time to kill.

4/4/2024
splitting the data: Focus on Florida, cut off last few years as test
			(extra step) after predicting Florida look at wind direction and
			see if we can predict alabama/mississippi
Linear Regression, ARIMA, and Random Forest seem like good directions to go in.

Basically write down what we explained to Elizabeth for the proposal.
Share the proposal on Monday and She'll get back to us on Thursday?
Meet up next week? Week of 15 not good.


4/24/2024
slide 1
Describe the problem:
	Algael blooms bad
Describe solution
	Forecast an algae bloom 

Visualization
	Plotly map gif

slide 2
The Data
	Where we got data from NOAA
	Describe data
		Problems with the data
		Clean 
		The parameters that seemed relevant

	EDA  
		Mostly Florida data so going to try to forecast Florida
		Stationary status of timeseries data
		Correlations between features for monthly vs quarterly data

		(have some plots)
		
	

slide 3
The Models
	Baseline

	Exponential Smoothing
		Simple
		Double
		Triple
	ARIMA	

	RandomForest
	(Table of results)
	(Some Plots)

slide 4
"This model performs the best"
Final Forecast

slide 5



executive sumamry should be more technical than presentation.

can try to combine results and say we expect this many spikes at this time

make a templeate for the executive sumamry and just have blanks where the values will be


